hal shear: Wow, yeah, thank you.
hal shear: Yeah, they are one.
hal shear: Yeah.
hal shear: there you go.
hal shear: Oh, great.
John Day: Oh, hello! Hal!
hal shear: Hi! There!
hal shear: How! How are you?
John Day: I'm well, I just sent you an email on that hotel in Canada.
hal shear: Yeah, I got it. Thank you. I sent you a note thanking you.
John Day: How we know anything about it. It's just something that we saw
John Day: look like. It might be okay.
hal shear: Yeah, that's fine.
hal shear: Okay. Oh, it's just while where I was waiting I was seeing whether I could get a
hal shear: a Pdf of the whole bill.
hal shear: The big bat build back better, Bill.
hal shear: Anyway.
hal shear: Let's proceed.
John Day: Okay, so Saul won't be here, neither will Dave just yet.
John Day: and I got a note from Jim to Natale, who said he's gonna drop out.
John Day: He's burnt out and
John Day: So
John Day: today I don't. I invited George. I don't know. I would. I hope he shows up because I would really like us to discuss
John Day: Wednesday's events to see how everybody thought it went so
John Day: we'll wait a little while and see? See if he if he does show up
John Day: trying to get the transcript from it. But I'm not optimistic. When
John Day: we, I mentioned it online as the meeting was closing, invested. Oh, Dom took care of that.
John Day: So I called Dom. She didn't know anything about it. So I sent an email to both Beth and Sally, asking them to
John Day: have somebody send me the transcript. But I'm not very optimistic. I they tend to.
hal shear: You didn't ask. You didn't ask Ollie.
John Day: What?
hal shear: You didn't ask Ollie.
John Day: Well, maybe the is he, the one who runs things behind the scenes.
hal shear: Put this way.
hal shear: Whenever there's that kind of an issue, he's the one he probably has access to all of it.
John Day: I see.
hal shear: I would.
hal shear: Absolutely, ask him.
John Day: So that's the back door to
hal shear: And and they know he has it. So it's not like you're going behind their back or anything. So I.
John Day: Right.
hal shear: Say to him, you know, explain what happened, and that we really need that transcript
hal shear: to do the analysis.
John Day: Well, not only that it would occur to me it could be, I think, in general, those transcripts for this type of
John Day: meeting could be very valuable, and one thing I intend to do is use the transcript
John Day: to see if there are any new topics we should be putting on the Discussion Board.
hal shear: Yes, I think it's I think it's very useful.
John Day: Yeah, alright. I didn't think about I didn't make remember that connection with Ollie, but you're probably right, as
John Day: I'm not sure what it is with with Beth and Sally, whether I mean they just don't seem to
John Day: respond to anything that is but the very basic in having this meeting, you know.
John Day: And I'm a little concerned actually in.
John Day: Maybe we can include George. We should include George in this.
John Day: How they feel about all of a sudden having a
John Day: discussion board to run the meeting. Are they happy with that? Or they feel that is an intrusion. I don't know.
John Day: I we might as well talk about it now we're onto it.
John Day: I thought it went pretty well, actually.
John Day: And I thought there was a significant improvement in the focus of the meeting, because we had something to frame it, and
hal shear: Yeah, I I absolutely positively agree.
hal shear: And the example I would use would be the the book discussion we had today on Valley, which.
hal shear: as you know, is run by Abby. And and it's
hal shear: the thing is that they understand the topic
hal shear: to the point where they could frame a couple of questions, and then, you know, there are 28 of us in the group, and you know people put up their their hands
hal shear: on the chat, and
hal shear: they can call on them, and then they, you know. So here you have an hour and a half in which we do a detailed look at the book, and
hal shear: so many different ways. I mean, it's just terrific. And that's because it's organized and because they did so much pre work. But because the group
hal shear: is willing to to deal with.
John Day: Contribute.
hal shear: Organization really important.
John Day: I'm not sure you're gonna find a very apt or enthusiastic audience with Abby.
John Day: I mean, I've been in the New Yorker discussion group for a couple of years, and
John Day: I, behind the scenes, was trying to promote use of Chatbots.
John Day: but I was very careful not to really talk about AI when I
John Day: you know, with speaking, I moderated a couple of stories.
hal shear: Yeah.
John Day: And I just stayed away from it. But
John Day: my, my strong sense there is that there is something between an aversion to having technology
John Day: used to outright hostility.
John Day: And I think there's a
John Day: big misunderstanding of what you can and should be doing with AI. And I hear all the time. Oh, well, you know.
John Day: might as well just have AI talking to AI, where you know it's gonna replace people. And so they're just kind of
John Day: a a lot of missed opportunity.
John Day: So let me relate a anecdote to you. That just happened yesterday, which it was I found quite interesting.
John Day: I'm always. I like to read a lot of different things. And so I like to have something in hand that, you know might be literature history, so that I can switch between them.
John Day: and I was looking for something to read yesterday and
John Day: kind of thought. Well, you know.
John Day: never really read anything by Faulkner.
John Day: and I'll give it a try. So I jumped on on Amazon.
John Day: and for 2 bucks I got a a collection of all his not, you know, his famous novels.
John Day: and I started in with the as I lie dying.
John Day: which is a famous book and right away I was drawn into it. It's it's very interesting
John Day: bit difficult to read, he, he writes, in the stream of conscious mode in which
John Day: The sentences tend to be fragmented.
John Day: And they it's just hard to follow.
John Day: and it's the school of of literature
John Day: that became very popular 20 years after Faulkner, called the Nouveau Houmont.
John Day: where reality is kind of broken up into these little
John Day: segments of things that we perceive, but not necessarily connected it, the more fragmented view of
John Day: the world around us.
John Day: But you know, it's a really interesting book.
John Day: So I'm reading it. And it reminds me of other things that I've read. 1st of all, it reminds me of this book by Ag, the only one he ever wrote which is death in the family.
John Day: Very interesting work, and it also reminded me of the
John Day: play by Thornton wilder our town.
John Day: So all of these works that yeah, I'm reading. As I lay dying
John Day: I read the other 2 long time ago, multiple times, and they seem similar. So I wanna I wanna compare them as they go along. So I start prompting AI
John Day: and I get some interesting results.
John Day: And then I say, okay, I want to make this more direct because this is just using general knowledge.
John Day: So I I you know, it took me 10 min to go find the text for these other works.
John Day: and I put it into a Claude project. Let me share that with you because I thought the I found the interest the
John Day: Okay?
John Day: Oh, let me get organized here.
John Day: Alright. So you see, the American trio of authors on the screen.
hal shear: No, it's
John Day: Tab.
John Day: I did it wrong again. Hold on!
John Day: Oh.
John Day: how about now?
hal shear: Better, yes.
John Day: Oh, okay, fine.
John Day: So
John Day: hold on
John Day: alright. So I started.
John Day: Well, let me show you. Oh, actually, yeah, let me go back.
John Day: What I did is, I took all 3 of those works, and I put it into the project. Knowledge.
hal shear: Right.
John Day: In the family, and our town.
John Day: and the text from as I like. As I lay down.
John Day: So I started asking the questions, and
John Day: it was very interesting what I got, and then
John Day: more and more, I find it very useful to use this visualization.
John Day: So this 1st visualization is, I said, Okay, visualize the relationship between these works.
John Day: And I get this graphic which made sense to me. I'm familiar with all the works.
hal shear: Yup!
John Day: And what else is that? As far as I did?
John Day: Now, let's create a detailed comparison of the tones of these 3 works.
John Day: and it does that for me.
John Day: So. The scope of this is, you know, I think.
John Day: quite remarkable, but it's jarring for a lot of people.
John Day: The fact that I can take these 3 works
John Day: that have a connection to one another
John Day: and explore that using the you know, these simple prompts is, I think, quite impressive, and
John Day: then to be able to visualize it is even more instructive or more interesting.
John Day: one can imagine. And, in fact, I'm at some point I think I might like to teach a course like this. Take 3 something like this, maybe even this this example.
John Day: But there's a big cultural challenge. A lot of people will just, I think.
John Day: get their backup and say, Oh, no, this is not. This is not what we do. When we read literature. We, you know
John Day: we we read something, and we talk.
John Day: and they never get beyond that.
John Day: So
John Day: there are the possibilities, and there are the obstacles.
hal shear: Yeah, I think the challenge. By the way, for my book group.
hal shear: I had both chat, gpt, and quad do
hal shear: some work for me which I could share. But the but the point is, I didn't get to the level of you did, because that wasn't
hal shear: I didn't need to, because I knew that the discussion would be sufficiently involved, that it would get to the point.
hal shear: But I think the big problem is, John, that there is so much disinformation, and and I don't mean
hal shear: Well, some of it is purposeful, but
hal shear: there is so much disinformation about
hal shear: the the what it means to use the AI. And I. And I think that
hal shear: what I pointed out to the people that I'm involved with is that things are changing so dramatically that the general purpose stuff that before where it went out and got all kinds of things
hal shear: that's gone. Those days are over as long as you're in one of the 3, and you put the prompts in properly, and you'll get the sources, etc, etc. And but I think that it's a real problem. As a matter of fact.
hal shear: I don't know whether you get the New York Times, but.
John Day: I do?
hal shear: Did you get the the Sunday section on AI?
hal shear: There was a whole magazine on AI.
John Day: No, I didn't get that. I should go. I should.
hal shear: Well you should look if you, assuming you have a subscription.
John Day: I do?
hal shear: Absolutely get it.
John Day: Let me see if I can run it down here.
hal shear: You have. It's back, I think, June. I actually have it for my
John Day: Do you know what it's called? AI.
hal shear: Yeah, it's called. It's the Sunday Magazine.
hal shear: Why is that? Oh, give me an exact.
hal shear: Alright.
hal shear: Yeah, it's called the AI issue.
hal shear: And it's it looks like this is the face of it.
hal shear: and it doesn't have a date.
hal shear: But it's alright.
hal shear: That's June 20, second.
John Day: All right.
hal shear: And and what when you go through the articles, I'm actually found the article about kids.
hal shear: And they're therapy possibilities
hal shear: to be very interesting for my.
hal shear: my, you know, 9 or 11 year old.
hal shear: So yeah, you got it.
hal shear: It's hard to find. You gotta go up here, I think.
hal shear: Use the search for June 20, second.
John Day: Yeah, you. If you've got the link, send it to me. But let's see. Now, I should be able to get to the magazine.
hal shear: What?
John Day: That, under.
hal shear: Well, but it yeah, it's good.
hal shear: But you got a fine magazine.
John Day: I know.
hal shear: But I think if you use the the
hal shear: think about July 11, th the rules, the the spyglass.
hal shear: You put it in there, and you'll probably get it easier.
hal shear: I have a big problem with it, too, because it doesn't show the magazine as an option.
John Day: Yeah, I know it's kind of scattered.
hal shear: Yeah. So if you just use that
hal shear: that little thing up in the corner, yeah, that's it.
John Day: To put what in.
hal shear: 20 second.
John Day: June 20, second.
hal shear: Yeah, 2,000.
hal shear: Yeah. Well, that's it.
John Day: Yeah, right.
hal shear: Oh, just open that up.
hal shear: I'll open up the Times in print for
hal shear: either 1st one today's paper.
hal shear: Open that up, and that should give you all the sections.
John Day: Huh!
John Day: I see I'm not familiar with this. But all right, let me.
hal shear: Yeah, but no, we go. Yeah, go back up and you'll see the magazine.
hal shear: If you were in the options somewhere.
John Day: Magazine, all right.
hal shear: There you go.
hal shear: So there you are, the the
John Day: Is this one the one everyone is using AI for? Everything. Is that bad.
hal shear: Yeah. Well, I mean, these articles are all about AI. But yes, when you look at that you'll see that. It's really confusing, and people don't take the time to figure it out
hal shear: and this is what they're reading. And so well remember, it's assuming that
hal shear: they're reading the times. But you know.
John Day: Anyway. June 16.th Yeah.
John Day: So I mean, there, there are a lot of them. But was there one in particular? You were looking at.
hal shear: The the one that that I'm using the most is the kids in crisis. Could Chatbot therapy help?
hal shear: Because I think that that's a really important thing.
John Day: I see.
hal shear: But in terms of the of the general look.
hal shear: I think that AI might take your job. AI is port. All those are interesting approaches.
hal shear: And you know the part that was this, AI might take your job thing.
hal shear: Point out that. Yes, some of the drudge stuff, whether it's legal or or whatever is, gonna go away. But you're gonna have other things like AI ethics.
hal shear: which I think is a real important thing. And you know. I don't think people have thought about the fact that humans can
hal shear: can add a connection here that AI doesn't up depreciate, and ethics, I think, is one example of that.
hal shear: And I spent a lot of time studying ethics, bioethics and
hal shear: in specific. So you know, I can see that it really makes a great deal of sense.
hal shear: But in any event, all I'm saying is that I think that
hal shear: those of us that know a little more, and you obviously know more than most people do. Certainly me
hal shear: the somehow the phraseology and I. We talked about this in the session with George
hal shear: I mean, I think, staying away from.
hal shear: But triggers is useful.
hal shear: and I don't know. You know I don't know how you do that because you're it's so inculcated with what you're doing, but somehow
hal shear: we have to use language that makes people understand that
hal shear: this is just another tool, and we have to use it and use it to benefit us.
hal shear: And and it's not something that's gonna kill us and take jobs away. And all the rest of that
hal shear: and so yes, yeah, in in a sense, you need to take the core a course to understand that for sure. But,
hal shear: You know, I think the more we can do to get away from the the done
hal shear: predicate that we use were better.
hal shear: By the way, you see the Sunday the magazine right there, and the and that one
hal shear: and the head and the headers underneath
hal shear: at times print front, page, etc.
hal shear: You see the magazine right there.
John Day: Where is it now?
hal shear: Right. See? Bring your your cursor down. That's it.
hal shear: Yeah, I know. Now, now I know how to get to it.
hal shear: Yeah. So that opens up the magazine.
John Day: I should actually bookmark that.
hal shear: Yeah, yeah, I think you'll find some interesting stuff in there. But
hal shear: I think that and it but it's a a
hal shear: It's a way to to have some subtlety.
hal shear: People, you know again, so many people believe that
hal shear: it's all crap what they find. And you know AI is just doesn't have any sense at all. You can't trust it, etc.
hal shear: and you know, understand that you know the sources are now, provided. You can, in fact, look at the sources, and you could put your own sources in.
hal shear: And I think those are the kinds of things that that people need to understand.
John Day: You know, yeah, how you get. There was a.
hal shear: Yeah. Man.
John Day: In a quarter you.
hal shear: Question, beyond that.
John Day: So getting back to our current events group, I really like the way that this topic board was progressing, at least from my point of view. It looked really good because
John Day: fairly low. On talking about AI, I mean, it was something that was out there
John Day: and you know, if I were a really super duper good web
John Day: developer, I could do that, but it would take me 10 times longer to do it.
John Day: and maybe nobody would ask the question.
John Day: So a short term goal for the group, if we can manage it.
John Day: is to main in my mind, would be to maintain the top, you know the topic board to help drive up, drive the discussions.
John Day: And then, as we're having the discussions, we could have these little diversions into what we've learned you know, with AI,
John Day: and then get people more interested or more comfortable, I guess.
John Day: So here's an here, here's an example of how that might work a little bit.
John Day: There's this guy you ever heard of, Ace Mcglue?
hal shear: Not seen that the name I don't know.
John Day: He's he's an economist in Mit.
John Day: and he just won the Nobel Prize in 2024.
John Day: So he's, you know, a more than reasonable source.
John Day: So what do you you got all these youtubes? Right?
John Day: And people talk. You know, they the
John Day: Youtube. So I watch this Youtube. I watch that Youtube. The problem is, you've got to listen to a lot of things before you get.
hal shear: You're breaking up, John.
John Day: What might be interesting to you right any better. Now hold on.
hal shear: Yes.
John Day: Can you hear me now?
John Day: Okay.
John Day: So what I was saying is that the problem with you know, looking at these youtubes is that
John Day: it?
John Day: takes a long time you have to listen to a lot of things before you get to to the topic of interest.
John Day: So what I had. Let's see if I still have this pub.
hal shear: Oh!
hal shear: You had the you had the the summary of it, and the key points.
John Day: Yeah. Where'd it go?
hal shear: Yeah, no, but I'm saying I'm sure you did that.
John Day: Alright. So let me just demonstrate that I was. I just did it with Gemini
John Day: recent.
John Day: Alright.
John Day: So the way this works who works best with Gemini is.
John Day: I think this is you unique to Gemini at this point.
John Day: Okay.
John Day: so it does a transcription of the audio into text, and then it analyzes it.
John Day: and then you you can't. And then it has references
John Day: to the section that it's referring to.
hal shear: Exactly.
John Day: So now you can turn all a lot of these Youtubes into things that you can interrogate.
John Day: So with some amount of scale acquisition, people could
John Day: look at a lot more a lot more effectively.
John Day: But there's most of our cohort. Our fellow senior citizens are stuck
John Day: with habits that they've had, you know, for a long time
John Day: you go online, you find something you like. You read it, you think about it, and you make notes about it. And that's it.
John Day: There's no way of being more systematic about getting at the information.
John Day: So a lot of the discussions that we have, I think, tend to be anecdotal.
John Day: Some people have better memories than others, and they, you know, Alan Nemeth has an excellent
John Day: command of the fax, and that's always very useful, but for the amount of
John Day: information that we've got to work through on some of these complex issues, a way to accelerate
John Day: the acquisition of the essential points. The salient points is of great value.
John Day: and it's all it is here at hand. But people have to
John Day: be able to work in a different mode, and I'm not sure how we
John Day: we get there. I think a bit about this, because.
John Day: given what I've done so far with teaching the courses and trying to
John Day: enable people to be able to use AI.
John Day: I come back frequently to the issue that
John Day: some people, most people, I would say, have challenges
John Day: with just interfacing with the browser and moving around when we 1st started, you had some issues, but I think we've worked through. Most of those was difficult. Because we were doing it remote.
John Day: So I think there's a layer in this that is just the mechanics.
John Day: How do you switch windows around? How do you make bookmarks.
John Day: How do you download, upload that sort of thing?
John Day: And one of the things that I'm considering.
John Day: Yeah, I'm on this strategic planning committee. So it'll give me some. It'll give me
John Day: An opportunity to suggest doing new things is to offer some nontraditional courses
John Day: at Bali, and and I would call these boot camp for AI,
John Day: and I think there could be an addition for political science.
John Day: for tech medical technology in addition, for even literature, perhaps.
John Day: and the approach that I would take is to focus 1st on just how you use the browser
John Day: that you have, whether it is chrome or safari
John Day: to access information to move around, make windows, and do all the things that you and I went through.
John Day: but
John Day: I think the right way to do that rather than trying to do it remotely is to do it in person.
John Day: So I would imagine a series of
John Day: sessions where we would all confer, and you know we all would get together at
John Day: Turner Street. I think they have facilities to do this.
John Day: The advantage is that when you have a problem, a person has a problem.
John Day: The facilitator, me can walk over to the computer and resolve it much more quickly than try to talk through the issues over the screen. That becomes very, very difficult.
John Day: so the progression would be building, and I gotta think through this, but building certain capabilities
John Day: on being able to establish a window, make a bookmark a a folder with bookmarks in it, and then get to some information, download it, and then we're ready to access a chat, bot, upload it to the chat bot and analyze it.
John Day: So let's establish the skills and then see what we can do with the skills in terms of
John Day: using chatbots
John Day: all the previous courses I've given have been general. I've tried to get something in in terms of subject matter.
John Day: I've tried to get something in there on literature and science and history and current events.
John Day: And the problem with that is, it's it's, I think, probably too diffuse.
John Day: So what this would be is focusing more on
John Day: the mechanics of what you do
John Day: with examples for a particular area of interest. Like current events. There could be boot camp for, you know AI boot camp for for current current events.
John Day: and finally, one of the I think, in the long term, one of the big advantages or one of the opportunities
John Day: is to be able to give or conduct a class from a facility that is
John Day: set up for both in person and remote access.
John Day: The technology has come a long way.
John Day: And in Lexington, for example.
John Day: at the Lexington Compute the Lexington Community Center they have 4 rooms that are set up like that.
John Day: I gave a talk at the Lexington Computer Technology group in such a room. And it was very good.
John Day: So you can have people either in person or
John Day: if they're more comfortable with what they're doing, they could be remote.
John Day: I think that that is something that's probably going to be a big thing in Bali's future.
John Day: having, you know, within this
John Day: planning group. Everybody agrees with that. It's just how do you? How do you get there?
John Day: some of the big issues that the the volley is facing is being in this antiquated Turner building that they want to shut down. And where are they gonna go next. And Brandeis is under a lot of duress financially right now. So it's not a good time to be
John Day: asking for, you know, upgrades and any sort of thing, so lot of barriers to get there. But I think this is the way that it would work extremely well. And
John Day: for my point I can imagine in the future giving a course where.
John Day: So it's a 5 week course
John Day: to you know. Maybe all of them would be in this hybrid mode. I would be willing to do that drive over to Brandeis, but the people who are actually
John Day: taking the course could either take it from their home, if it's more convenient.
John Day: or if they want, they could come to the facility for the hands on.
John Day: Now that might be a little bit particular to the sort of thing that I do, but I could see that might be useful in lots of other areas.
John Day: I think we're
John Day: of course I'm heavy in heavily focused on technology. And I think there's a lot of advantages.
John Day: But there's a big, practical aspect of that, a lot of courses. I take the
John Day: study group leader doesn't use any visual aids.
John Day: It's all oral.
John Day: And I think that's a big missed opportunity.
John Day: I mean, you know, you just
John Day: you read this, and we'll talk about it, and it's all restricted to
John Day: how much I can remember about what somebody has said.
John Day: and the last period of time, or earlier in in the course.
John Day: And very. I think very few Sdls have visual aids.
John Day: and a lot of that is because they don't. A lot of them just don't have the skills to
John Day: use, you know, to put up those visual aids.
John Day: So kind of a big, complicated problem with the
John Day: So shall we say digital fluency being
John Day: at the foundation of a lot of it? And I I think if we're gonna move forward and get an adaptation of
John Day: a widespread adaptation of of AI in our study.
John Day: and to improve the quality of the presentation, we have to solve this digital fluency problem. So what are your thoughts.
hal shear: Well, I mean, I agree with you. On the other hand.
hal shear: I think you have to be very careful
hal shear: with how you articulate it. So, for example, if you said.
hal shear: I'm going to give a course, or I'm gonna show Sgl's how to visualize things, so that
hal shear: they would, that would be an addition to just reading something and saving the copy.
hal shear: I'm not saying it perfectly, but the whole idea would be how to make the course more
hal shear: impactful successful. Whatever, however, you want to. Characterize it, the the
hal shear: that would not have anything to do with AI per se.
hal shear: It would it would have to do with? Here are some tools that you can use to visualize
hal shear: the material, and you could show
hal shear: in political science, for example, or whatever you know, whichever thing you chose, you could say, here's what it would look like it, and I think that way
hal shear: you could overcome some of the the reluctance to do anything digital quote unquote. I think that you really need to
hal shear: to
hal shear: move people away from thinking that. Yeah, we gotta worry about, you know, bookmarks and all that. Yes, they do. But it's in the context of
hal shear: trying to make the the educational experience better.
hal shear: And I think that you have. I think it's a great example that the
hal shear: the example you have on the screen
hal shear: is a great example. But and and I think that the the the issue would be how to how to present the problem in a way that
hal shear: people can understand.
hal shear: And so I think that's that. That's the crucial thing. And so if if the strategic
hal shear: or turns out to say yes, we have to make sure that we have these technology tools in our toolbox so that we can teach and learn better.
hal shear: I think that's going to be a very tough sell.
hal shear: I think it just. You have to work backwards from saying one of the things we're trying to do is to improve our ability to retain the the
hal shear: material from our our sessions, and one way to do that is to use the visualization, etc.
hal shear: Oh, I'm sorry. I don't mean to to rant, but.
John Day: No, no, that's it that we're we're, you know. We're talking through this. And it's important to get different perspectives in here. I'm trying to get a you know, nucleus of a team that can, you know, help.
hal shear: Right.
John Day: Think through this. So I I agree with everything you said it. It's a matter of the emphasis and how you get there. For example
John Day: I've come to be. I've come to use these launch pads a lot.
hal shear: Yup!
John Day: And the idea here is to put essentially everything you need for the course
John Day: on the launch pad. I can do that or links to it.
John Day: So for the very, very beginners.
John Day: all you gotta do is get them this one
John Day: reference and have them bookmark. One thing.
John Day: and then, as the course goes on, I can change things
John Day: on this one, you know, on this one page. Just keep it very, very simple. So if you were giving a course. Say you have some
John Day: general information here.
John Day: And there could be a week, one down here.
John Day: and then the next week there could be a week, 2, and then if you click on that, you would go to the set of
John Day: visuals that you're going to use for week one. So I think one of the things that keeps
John Day: the most Sgls from actually developing a website is that the recommended approach to that
John Day: is to use the Google product of presentations, or I, I forget what it's called.
hal shear: Yup!
John Day: And you know I'm comfortable with that. That's you know. That's fine. But for a lot of people they don't, you know. I've heard them say, Oh, you know I can't do that, you know this is, you know, this is awful.
John Day: and it does require, for you know they just can't get off the ground.
John Day: So how we're I'm just coming at this in a different angle.
John Day: How can we facilitate? Let's focus on the Sdls. Now, how can we facilitate getting them the information
John Day: that they might use if it were in the appropriate format.
John Day: and they get it to them so that they can conveniently use it.
John Day: So something like, if I were working with somebody to create a course.
John Day: And we agreed that, okay, week, one is, gonna have this type of visual is, you know, these things that I need to talk about.
John Day: We could quickly create the visualizations that they need
John Day: and put a link in here in this launch pad so that they could get to them.
John Day: And I think with a little bit of work they could. You know, master, that
John Day: reasonably well. And I think that that may be a point where this
John Day: effort that we've got going, which is focused a lot on Project 2025, but in general could be very helpful.
John Day: There are a lot of things that we're doing, information that
John Day: if we made available to these Sgls
John Day: and facilitated them, getting their hands on, you know, being able to access it
John Day: and bringing it on a screen in a very, very simplified manner.
John Day: We might get more uptake on acclamation to improving the level of instruction with better visuals, and then
John Day: by slow degrees get into what goes on behind the scenes, because you may say, Okay, I need a visualization for this. Well, how do you get that? And and we might get online with them for a a 30 min session and say, Okay, let's
John Day: here's what we do with. You know, Claude, to look at. You know this document you want to talk about or set of documents you want to talk about. And here's how we visualize it.
John Day: and then we work with them and show them how that, you know how how that comes about.
John Day: and then make it available to them. Let me let me give you a case in point. Here I I talked about this.
John Day: I think a couple of weeks ago when Saul was here. And it's probably
John Day: it was a bit of a mind, Bender, because it's in a totally different area.
John Day: But I'm gonna I just wanna show you the content for it, or that's on the
John Day: Got another launch pad here, chance and necessity launch pad.
John Day: So this is a really important book that was written in the
John Day: 1970.
John Day: And this guy, Jacques Mano Nobel Laureate in chemistry.
John Day: He's right up there with Maxwell Einstein Planck.
John Day: The work that he did was just so fundamentally insightful.
John Day: And he
John Day: Oh, here I'll show you.
John Day: I've been reading the book a Pdf version of the book
John Day: for the last couple of weeks.
John Day: and what I've been doing is creating a data visual Directory lots and lots of data visuals. Let me find. So this isn't all complete. But
John Day: Oh, sequencing mono visualization.
hal shear: You passed it. It was back up below where you are now.
John Day: What?
hal shear: It's below where you are. Now. Keep going down.
John Day: Going down.
hal shear: Yes, you're going up now. Go back, down.
John Day: I'm looking for a particular visualization. Let me see if I can find it.
John Day: Some of it gets pretty.
John Day: Oh, okay, I think this is it?
John Day: Yep, there it is.
John Day: So this was the result of, you know, doing a query and and looking into
John Day: the book, chance and necessity.
John Day: So this is the type of visualization that can be readily created for use.
John Day: Can it give
John Day: the? You know you'd have to work with the Sgl. Show them the visualization, see? If you know they understand, or they like the way it flows, and fairly easy to change it.
John Day: and then they could use it as a guide when they're talking.
John Day: Okay.
John Day: So we don't have to necessarily get into the content here. But
hal shear: But yeah, but let me point out something, John.
hal shear: Yeah.
hal shear: The assumption is that we are gonna change the oh.
hal shear: both the substance and the no, we're going to keep the substance the same. But we're going to change the format of our learning process.
hal shear: And that's the under the assumption that what we're doing now is
hal shear: not as useful to pass the characters in Bali as it could be.
hal shear: so that that on the in the strategic session question is, how do we advance to the next level to make sure that as many people as possible get the maximum benefit from each course.
hal shear: and, in fact that has to do with the Sgl's both picking the course and then creating the this. This kind of content visualization, the wrong word. But this presentation.
hal shear: and and I think that it would be better
hal shear: to show an example from an existing course which has been taught.
hal shear: you know, 4 or 5 times
hal shear: and use. Take that where you have all the data you have. The 10 classes
hal shear: have been recorded. You have all the information, and you could show the Sgl. Using a good example, show an Sgl how it could look with some what you would call minor involvement.
hal shear: And all of a sudden you could see the benefit of this.
hal shear: and I think that would be the best way to both
hal shear: from a strategic point of view, but also from a practical point of view. When you get down to the how do you convince people? Because we have that? I mean, I you know I was thinking of of Lois's ban the books course she's taught it, I think 3 times she's teaching it again
hal shear: in the fall, and you have all that that entire course is available for you to to analyze and present.
hal shear: And she's no dummy.
hal shear: although she, you know, clear she didn't want to be as involved. And I don't know. You know she had a lot of other things going on.
hal shear: But I don't think she has any particular problem with AI or technology at all, but I think showing her what it would look like would be really a good way to do it.
John Day: Okay. I think we're very much talking along the same lines.
hal shear: Good.
John Day: So here, is something I did, following our conversation with Saul.
John Day: And I created this deep research.
John Day: And there's the
John Day: there is the oh, actually, no! This is the this is the wrong one, the one.
John Day: Give me a minute here.
John Day: Yeah.
John Day: Actually, I didn't. I? Just
John Day: I move that up already.
John Day: Too many loose threads here.
hal shear: Yeah, no, I understand.
John Day: I don't wanna want. I don't wanna end our session without having talked about.
John Day: Sure.
hal shear: What we're going to.
John Day: Yeah, let's just do this, and then we'll, I'll move on.
John Day: Yeah, I found the link. So this came out of the things that we were, and right along the line that you were just talking.
John Day: This was Saul's discussion of why people vote against their own interest.
hal shear: Right.
John Day: And so based upon some, you know, pretty minimal
John Day: input from him, I was able to create this type of economic or this type of dashboard.
John Day: So what I wanted to do with Saul. So you know, this was a case history or
John Day: a use case that I wanted to probe in the ways that you're talking about is.
John Day: how would you use this in a course, Saul? Is this right? If it's not, we can adjust it, and I wanted to use him as a real time. Live guinea pig as we as he moves through his course, and I would be interested in finding. You know Lois would be great. You know she wanted to engage with us.
John Day: I think you're absolutely right. We have to kind of work our way through this, but
John Day: and a couple of demonstrations would be extremely appropriate. Right.
hal shear: Yeah, and I would just I would stay away from I mean, I would make sure one of the demonstrations had nothing to do with mathematics or science
hal shear: it it that it was like. And I've just used band of books, because, it's a
hal shear: fairly straightforward course. But you know it's very complicated. In terms of geography and political. All the yeah. I think it's a terrific subject, but I think it could be enhanced by this kind of work and
hal shear: and I think that that would show
hal shear: most effectively what you can do. This challenge with Saul's course is that it's a dense course. To begin with.
John Day: Oh, yeah.
hal shear: Right. And so the only people that take that course, I think, are people that are really deeply into it. And I'll bet that he doesn't get, you know, 50 people in that course. He's probably getting 8 or 10 or 12 right.
John Day: That's a good point. I'm.
hal shear: You know, you just have to. If if you're gonna make some assumptions about the group of members
hal shear: in general, I think that
hal shear: you have to kind of go where they are. I agree with you, I mean, I think this is I mean, I don't. I don't know the detail of any of this, but this is a great way to present it, because it is a subject which is really important. And
hal shear: you know whether it's a cultural identity or whether it's geography or whatever. There's lots of ways that you can look at this. And we've got to do more looking because it's in front of us, right
hal shear: to the 26 election, the 28 election. Those are big deals.
hal shear: Anybody.
John Day: Alright. So you know, Lois, you can, you know certainly.
John Day: Talk to her about whether she would like to
John Day: work with us to you! That's the that's the course you were you were talking about right.
hal shear: Yeah.
John Day: Ask her if she wants to work with us, to help her create visuals
John Day: that might be helpful for her or her. Her course.
hal shear: Yeah. But I think the way you have to characterize it is to say,
hal shear: lowest. We're in process of of working on a lot of Bali strategic things going forward, and one of which is to help Sgls with some tools that can make it a A more useful course for the participants
hal shear: as opposed to
hal shear: you know. How how can you make it? I mean, have to kind of that. That would be my my personal approach.
hal shear: And
hal shear: you know I don't think she's alone. I mean, there are other people that that are that, you know do the same courses
hal shear: over.
John Day: Well, that that's fine. I I'm just suggesting. Since you've got a you've taken a course from her.
hal shear: But see the the I'll give you another example, and that's Ollie. Okay, now, Ollie isn't about as technically astute as one can be.
hal shear: but he's never used. I mean, he creates a website for his course, and yes,
hal shear: you know you can delve into it, but I don't think he's used this, and he be.
John Day: That's probably true.
hal shear: Another example of a person to see whether they know he's probably in your strategy group, anyway, right.
John Day: He is.
hal shear: Yes, so I mean, I think that he's an example. But he's we taught a course.
hal shear: I've over and over again. I think he this even this Jfk, course he's doing which I'm
hal shear: signed up for. Whether I'll get in or not I don't know. He's done it before.
hal shear: so you know he's got the whole thing laid out already.
hal shear: Now he's updating it for that to that. But still he'd be a perfect example.
hal shear: and he's respected by the I think, by people in general, so he would be a really good. In fact, I the more I think about it, I think he'd be the perfect example.
hal shear: perfect, perfect, perfect, perfect example.
John Day: So why don't we do this? Let's think about this and identify a couple of candidates, Lois Ally.
John Day: and then invite them to a Friday meeting to just
John Day: to discuss what the opportunities are.
John Day: and if they would like to proceed.
John Day: Okay.
hal shear: Yeah.
John Day: Does that sound, reasonable.
hal shear: Yeah, let me look at the at the oh.
hal shear: at the the courses and and instructors, and see if I have any others that I would suggest.
John Day: Yeah, right? You know, 3 or 4 would be, I think, fine if we got started with just one or 2 of them.
John Day: That would be extremely that'd be a good step forward.
hal shear: Yeah.
John Day: So for other people. In the more general
John Day: context of 2025, you had mentioned several times that you thought Steve Klein might be a good person to, or would be interested in attending you. Do you want to extend an invitation to him for one of our meetings?
hal shear: Yeah, I think that. There's another example of somebody who's interested enough in it, and is technically sophisticated enough that he could be another
hal shear: a very good person, and I'm happy to talk to him about that.
John Day: Yeah. So why don't you put it forth?
John Day: A lot of this depends upon personal relationships
John Day: getting people, you know, comfortable and and willing to try something new. But if we get 2 or 3 people that we could shepherd through and show definitive, you know, positive results.
John Day: That would be a step forward.
hal shear: And I think I think the key is gonna be like, keep it badge.
hal shear: as untechnical as we can make it
hal shear: such that people don't think they have to be you know.
hal shear: involved in every single thing. The beauty of your work is that
hal shear: you've done the underlying. Forget. What if it's true underlying coding
hal shear: that allows this thing to be produced. So it's not like they have to do that, have a format that people can turn to. And I think that's really important.
John Day: If you found me out how I'm the
John Day: I'm the architect under this, and figuring out how to do this.
hal shear: Yeah, I think it's brilliant. I think it's absolutely stunning.
hal shear: Okay.
John Day: That's how we proceed. So here's the file you sent me.
hal shear: Yup, okay, so here's the work I did.
hal shear: And
hal shear: and in order to get the numbers I had to put once next to the next to the article, so I could sum it up and I.
John Day: Oh, yeah.
hal shear: Instead, I decided not to worry so much about
hal shear: contributors and and and authors, because
hal shear: that's much less important than the actual people that are involved and what they've done. So if you go to the bottom, you'll see we now have
hal shear: I don't know whether it's 140 or something. If you move down the bottom of that
hal shear: screen all the way to Z,
hal shear: yeah. 141 mandate for leadership folks
hal shear: who are involved in the administration.
hal shear: So now, the fact is.
hal shear: my skill in in in presentation is not sophisticated enough to organize this in a way that
hal shear: that is useful, I mean, right now. I just did it alphabetically, because I wanted to make sure everything was right. But technically what we should be doing, I think is
hal shear: linking them the combining them in some way that makes sense. Whether it's Cabinet secretaries, deputies, I don't know. You know. It's up, you know. I I think it's it just has to be done
hal shear: in order that we can.
hal shear: Oh.
John Day: So download
John Day: alright. So that's on there.
hal shear: Okay.
John Day: So
John Day: visualize the people in this field in relation to the
John Day: organization. They belong to.
hal shear: Yes.
John Day: Alright, let's try that.
John Day: So what it's doing right away is writing an excel. It's writing a a Javascript.
hal shear: To go in and analyze it.
John Day: Say, did you see the visualization of the discussion we had with George
John Day: sent that out in an email.
hal shear: Yes.
John Day: Okay. Good.
hal shear: I got that Yup and I frankly, I think it's it was absolutely terrific. They edit.
hal shear: you know, as I'm trying to explain the impact of how AI is useful.
hal shear: It was a great example.
hal shear: So I really like it.
John Day: So at some point, if we get this off the ground, there's gonna have to be some
John Day: type of structure, for, you know.
John Day: for people office hours, if you will.
John Day: Yeah, I suppose you had a couple of Sdls that finally got motivated to do this. They're gonna get stuck. And
John Day: we would, I think, have to have some type of weekly meeting where they come and say, All right. I'm trying to do this, but I don't know how to move along and show them how to do that, because otherwise I think that the barrier is just
John Day: probably too large.
hal shear: Yeah, I would agree with that.
John Day: It's not a trivial thing we're trying to do.
hal shear: No, but let me. While we're waiting for this, let me make the other point I wanted.
hal shear: I think it's time to begin to share some of the information we've created on the project. 2025 analysis
hal shear: and as I I think we now have
hal shear: a good sense of the executive orders. We know.
hal shear: the the challenges cause. You had a wonderful vaccination of that. And we now have the people.
hal shear: Okay.
hal shear: What we don't have is we haven't addressed the question of
hal shear: the impact on the law that is.
hal shear: on bills that have passed the Congress and signed into law. At this point. We have one right, the big, bad, beautiful Bill.
hal shear: And so
hal shear: that's you know. That's the next step in terms of understanding the the comparison between what was in the mandate, and what's
hal shear: in the bill.
hal shear: But before we do that, I think we could share some of this with
hal shear: people we wanted to share it with, and I'm again.
hal shear: I don't know.
hal shear: because I don't know the cast of characters that well, to know exactly how we ought to do that.
hal shear: I mean, I can think of people that are not part of valley that might be interested. But I like to stay focused on Valley people if if we can.
John Day: Sure.
John Day: So it made an error. Yes, I'm I'll get back to that.
John Day: I mentioned to Ted what we're doing, and I said at some point we might want to send out a newsletter.
John Day: so maybe a newsletter to introduce
John Day: the effort, and that requires some shaping and and thought.
John Day: and some examples of what we could do. Now I was very keen that
John Day: Jim Dinatale was. That was something that I thought he he probably could help a lot. But now he he's you know.
John Day: not that's not with us anymore. But I think that that would be a good
John Day: probably that would be a good approach. Okay? So you can see here that it's not working.
hal shear: No.
John Day: Well, but this is you know, part and parcel of it. So all I'm gonna do is take a screenshot.
John Day: and sometimes it takes a little cycling around before you get it.
hal shear: Okay. You know we've now. We've now answered the question that I had, which was.
hal shear: How do we? How do we get this out, and I think the idea of a newsletter
hal shear: is a really good one and mean, do you think about
hal shear: who can help us with that?
John Day: Yeah, can, hey? Well, hey, can you try to influence Lois?
John Day: Say, we'll help you. But we would like you to help us write a newsletter she might be, you know. She might be interested in doing that. She took a course. She's kind of interested in it, but I think it was getting to be too weighty for her.
hal shear: Yeah.
hal shear: Okay. Well, let me. I'll I'll ask. In the meanwhile, try to think of some other people that might be interested.
John Day: Yeah, yeah. And you know, I I would like to get it out soon enough. But it's still early days, I think.
hal shear: Well, but the the nice thing is that since we have a June 30th
hal shear: set of facts or information
hal shear: I think it's nice to to use that, and
hal shear: you know, so I think timing is the right timing
hal shear: and you know whether, when they publish a newsletter is up to them, but I think it's
hal shear: I think timing is good, so.
John Day: The sprawling sprawling effort.
John Day: But and we we gotta keep that distinct
John Day: from some of the fundamental changes that we're trying to make. And, as you quite correctly
John Day: stated earlier, we're trying to change how people learn things that's not trivial.
hal shear: Yeah. Oh, okay. Here you go.
John Day: Okay.
hal shear: Good, so.
John Day: So now- now.
John Day: Oh, no, I gotta tell it digital wrong format.
hal shear: You don't use, publish.
John Day: Yeah, no. What I have to do is rewrite this as an HTML, okay?
John Day: So what it'll do it'll it'll it'll create something that I can
John Day: make into an H. Tml, Link, I'll do that. I'll add it to our library, and I'll send it to you. So I've started
John Day: a library. I think I've started a library for
John Day: Let me go look
John Day: Oh, where's the data?
John Day: So yep.
John Day: and Github and get Github carniments.
John Day: Oh, no!
John Day: So I paused a little bit there.
John Day: So I gotta think about this a little bit. Let's talk.
John Day: I'm creating different containers to for storing things like web pages.
hal shear: Updated Visualizations.
John Day: So should I make it a separate one for Project 2025, or should I just call it current events and put it there.
hal shear: I don't know.
hal shear: I guess I guess there's no reason it couldn't be in both right.
John Day: Well, that's what I'm saying. It's it's it's it's of that sort. So maybe just get started. We'll just leave it in current
John Day: and current events, and then maybe change. So now, what this allows us to do
John Day: is, oh, there's a there's a 1 that I did for Saul.
John Day: You could start looking at these things, and it would.
John Day: The infrastructure is already there
John Day: for us to create a library for an Sdl. To go and see what are all the data visualizations that have been created, and they can see. Oh, this voting paradox that could be interesting. They could bring that up. Maybe they want to use that, or they contact us and says, Hey, this is pretty close, but
John Day: it's very direct to be able to
John Day: create these data visualizations and then making them available.
John Day: So we might want to try that with the, you know some, you know. Some people, you see, see how that would work.
hal shear: Yeah, I think that again, it's gonna take the more sophisticated people to
hal shear: to take the time to do that.
John Day: Well, yeah.
hal shear: But any event, yeah, let me think about that.
John Day: Yeah, right?
John Day: We don't have to do it all this. And
hal shear: Yeah, no, it's okay. And if when you have time, you can look at our project 2025
hal shear: board and see that I've updated the of the introductory language such that
hal shear: that might be a good way to do the to begin the newsletter.
hal shear: So I'll I'll play with that, too.
John Day: Alright. So I did have on the agenda for today to talk about an upcoming
John Day: communication to Bali as a whole. But this is a you know.
John Day: This is like going out to meet Napoleon and do battle, and our our ranks are a bit thin, right.
hal shear: Yeah, if if there's anything I can do to slow down your generalization, and and you know, try to make it, as
hal shear: you know, useful and as possible, not from a technical standpoint. If you got that down, but how to how to make sure that you're gonna get the maximum interest.
hal shear: That's my! That's my feeling.
John Day: Yeah, no, I I quite agree. And I I understand that I'm not the right person to
John Day: my mind doesn't work in that way.
John Day: So no, I'm serious and.
hal shear: No. Well, yeah.
John Day: That's just the way life is. Or you know, that's that's the way we're wired. That's why I really wanna get enough people in our group
John Day: that have different perspectives. I was very
John Day: keen on having Jim in the group
John Day: because he did that in the past, and I thought that would be extremely useful. I think Dave Chelsea had could you know, can add to it. But somebody more, you know, less technical. And you know, maybe we can convince Lois that we really need help with the communications, and she might she might be willing to help help us
John Day: alright. Well, I'll finish this exercise. I'll create the web page and put it in current events, and I'll send you a link to the web page so you can review it, and bounce it against the spreadsheet and see that it makes sense.
hal shear: Good.
hal shear: Okay.
John Day: So.
hal shear: Are you here next week, or is that
hal shear: I'm here? I've got my son coming in.
hal shear: so I may have a little time constraint, but as long as I have something in advance.
hal shear: yeah, my son's coming in from Hawaii to go to Mit for a week, and
hal shear: so he's gonna be busy during the day, so I don't have to worry about that.
hal shear: But in general, all you have to do is just give me an idea of what would work best for you, and I'll try to work around that.
John Day: We'll have a meeting next Friday. At the same time.
hal shear: Friday, the.
John Day: A lot of the 18, th I think.
hal shear: Yeah, the 18.th
hal shear: Yeah, that would be I that that certainly would work for me. Okay, so I'll put that in
hal shear: or 2 o'clock.
John Day: Yeah, I'll send that. I'll send that on.
hal shear: Okay.
John Day: So speaking of sons, our son just bought a house in New Hampshire. There
John Day: they were in Manchester, New Hampshire. Now they're moving to a more rural setting in Chester, New Hampshire, which is east of it.
John Day: So that's a lot of excitement on that.
hal shear: I'm sure I'm sure.
John Day: Yeah.
hal shear: All right.
hal shear: Well, have fun, and we'll talk
hal shear: alright. I'll send you this link once I get it sorted. Okay.
John Day: Good discussion today.
hal shear: Yeah.
John Day: Too bad. It was just the 2 of us.
hal shear: Yep.
John Day: Alright talk to you later.
hal shear: Alright, bye.
John Day: Bye.